Program: PAT or JK's API SPY 5.0
Author: Patrick Gillespie
Website: www.patorjk.com
E-Mail: patorjk@aol.com (read all before you e-mail me though)

Uses:
* Lets you see the handle and class names of windows.
* Lets you easily create the code to find windows.
* Lets you easily create code to manipulate windows.
* Lets you see a list of all the windows open.
* See "Features."

Files needed that are not included with this program: 
msvbvm60.dll and mscomctl.ocx 
You can get both of these files at my site if you don't all ready
have them.

Why to use this program:
If you've ever tried to write the code to find a window using a normal
spy like freespy, then you'll know what a pain in the butt it is. You
can sit for 30 minutes trying to write the code to find a window and
still not get it. Plus you're NOT learning anything at all while trying
to do it. That's why I wrote this program. It gets rid of that step
and makes it so you can focus more on your ideas and less on finding
windows. 

Some people think coding generating programs like this are lame because
you're not writing the code yourself. Those people have NO idea of what
they are talking about. Either that, or they've never sat down and tried
to write a lot of window finding code. This program makes programming
to manipulate windows easy and gets rid of mindless window finding
headaches. I use it all the time.

Some final thoughts:
This is the last version of the api spy that I'm making (unless I find
an error or something like that). I released the first version of this
program over a year ago, and it received almost no feedback. It wasn't
really till version 3 when I introduced some extra features like
function creating and code options that the program started to get
noticed. The idea for creating this program did not come from seeing
another program like it. It came from working with freespy. Which
was the only spy I knew of back then. After figuring out how it worked 
I found a way to make a program that wrote the code to find windows for
you. By the way, don't be upset that this is the last version. Code 
add-ins can now be added to the program, and the options area of this
program is probably the only thing I'd update in future versions
anyway.

Code Add-In Creator:
How to use this should be pretty self explanatory. Fill in all the 
information (16 bit and 32 bit) and then push the "Create Add-In" button.
If you'd like people to be able to use the Get Code Add-Ins program
to download your add-in just do one of the following:

1. Upload your code add-in to some place and then send me the url. I'll
download it and if it checks out I'll add it to the list.
2. Send me the code add-in in the mail and if it checks out add it to
the list (a code add-in wont check out if the code it generates doesn't
work or if the information isn't filled out right).

Remember to use "*"'s in places where the window handle variable should
be.

Get Code Add-Ins:
This is a program that is used by the spy to get new code add-ins off
the internet. How to use this should also be pretty self explanatory.
On my computer it resizes fine, but when I tested it out on another
computer the list had trouble resizing right (just a note). 

NOTE: Many of the code add-ins that I write probably wont be 
compatible with 16 bit versions of vb. This is because I don't have
a 16 bit version of vb anymore.

Features:
* Drag and drop code generating - This makes it so all you have to do
to generate the code to find a window is to drag and drop the "Ring
of source code" onto that window.

* Finding a certain window functions - This lets you find a certain
type of window in a group of other windows that have the same class
name.

* Box viewing option - Creates a box outline around the window your 
mouse is over.

* Tree - Gives you a visual view of a window's heredity. The top window
is the desktop. This window represents the entire screen. Not all 
applications will show it as their parent though (if you use the 
getparent function on the window). You can also create a tree that
shows all of the windows that are open.

* Continuous Coding - lets you create the code to find a list of windows
one by one. It's purpose is to make writing code to perform certain 
tasks easier. Example: Filling out all of the textboxes on an e-mail 
form and then hitting the send button.

* Comes with a short tutorial on API.

* Color Spy - Lets you get the color of any pixel on your screen.

* Create screen shots of windows - You can do them of little things like
buttons and pictures, or you can do them of full windows.

* Extract program icons - You can extract and save the icon that a
program uses.

* Built in codes - Has some pre-made message sending codes that you
can add on to the windows you find (like setting the text).

* Code add-in creator - Create your own codes that can be used in the
program.

* Get add-ins - This is an application that comes with the program. It
allows you to check and see if there are any new code add-ins for you
to download. It can be loaded from the spy, or by itself.

* Generates code that works in 16 bit and 32 bit versions of VB.

* Tells you what you need to put in your module (*.bas file) for the
code to work.

* It's free! But see the help section in the program for donation
information if you'd like to help a guy out.